# Introduction

## Data vs. Information

Society produces huge amounts of data. 
Data must first be understood and extracted. 

* Data: Recorded Facts
* Information : patterns underlying the data

## Information is Crucial 

Extract features and attributes from the data
With more attributes and features a better judgement can be made.

## Data Mining
* Extraction of implicit, previously unknown and potentially useful information from data
* Needed : programs that detect patterns and regularities in the data.
* Strong patterns can be used to make predictions

## Machine Learning Techiques
* Technical basis for data mining : algorithms structrual descriptions from examples
* structura descriptions represent patterns explicitly
    * used to predict outcome in new situation
    * used to understand and explain how prediction is derived
* Methods originate from artificial intelligence, statistics and research on databases

Big Data is defined by the number of instances and number of features.

## Structural Descriptions

From a set of data a rule can be extracted using known alorithms. 
We can use non-binary classigfication, meaning multiple classes to sort the data. 

## Can Machines really learn?

* To get knowledge by study, experience, or being taught
* To become aware by information or from observation
* to commit to memory
* to be informed of , ascertain; to recieve instruction

## Classification vs. Association rules
* Classification rule : predicts value of pre-specified attribute ( the classification of an example)
` if outlook = sunny and humidity = high then play = no `

* Associations rule: predicts value of arbitrary attribute or combination of attrbutes (Apriori rules)
` if temperature = cool then humidity = normal `
` if humidity = normal and windy = false then play = yes`

# Building a classifier
From a table of data a decision tree model can be used to step through decisions that would use the features in the table to categorize new data as it comes in similar to what is known in the table.

# Statistics vs Machine Learning
In statistics we test the hypothesis using different tests. The tests analyze the dataset in many ways to see if a hypotheiss is true. Machine learning tries to extract the hypothesis from the data sets. The hypothesis is a pattern that can be extracted from the data set. 

# Overfitting-avoidance Bias
When building a model there is a possibility of your model memorizing your data and only works on the initial dataset but predictions are really wrong.

# Whats a Concept?

1. Styles of learning :
    * Classification Learning : predicting a discrete class
    * Association Learning : detecting associations between features
    * Clustering : grouping similar instances into clusters
    * Numeric prediction : predicting a numeric quantity
    * Ordering : aligns objects in some kind of priority
2. Concept : Thing to be learned
3. Concept description : output of learning scheme

