# Research Papers Reviews

### [[Design and Optimization of Solar, Wind, and Distributed Energy Resource (DER) Hybrid Power Plant for Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Station in Rural Area.pdf]]

#### Citation:
Nizam, M.; Wicaksono, F.X.R. Design and Optimization of Solar, Wind, and Distributed Energy Resource(DER) Hybrid Power Plant for Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Station in Rural Area. In Proceedings of the2018 5th International Conference on Electric Vehicular Technology (ICEVT), Surakarta, Indonesia, 30–31 October 2018.

#### Review: 
The paper reviews the possibility of building a hybrid powerplant in indonesia. It shows the effectiveness of different combinations of batteries and generation sources. It provides a financial breakdown of costs and operation given optimization algorithms and known constraints. 

The paper reviews the possibility of building a hybrid powerplant in Indonesia. It shows the effectiveness of different combinations of batteries and generation sources. It provides a financial breakdown of costs and operation given optimization algorithms and known constraints. The most optimal solution found was a combination of Solar (PV) and a DER (Converter and Battery) . They also analyzed that the best battery was a Lithium Ion over the Lead Acid due to performance even at higher costs. Overall the paper was a good overview of considerations taken when designing a hybrid power plant. The paper did not have extensive design details , It also tried to combine a lot of concepts and fell short describing critical steps.

#### Notes: 
- By utilizing hybrid power generation the potential for renewable energy in rural areas can be a key for charging stations in rural areas for electric vehical infrasstructure
- fossil fuels are serious health hazards
- Energy fluctuations from renewables 
- Wind speed varies with hieght from thr ground by a ratio of 1/7
- power is generated from turbines per unit swept area , with a changing power coefficient depending on wind speed
- Using chapter 2: as a background research
- focused on a particular area given a windspeed and solar potency
- Optimization for geographic location
- Power Management optimzation (Looking at priorities and act accordingly)




### [[Consensus Network Based Distributed Energy Management for PV-Based Charging Station.pdf]]

#### Citation:
Zhang, J.; Yuan, R.; Jiang, Z.; Yin, H.; Chen, T.; Li, T.; Zhao, H. Consensus Network Based Distributed Energy Management for PV-Based Charging Station. In Proceedings of the IECON 2017—43rd Annual Conferenceof the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, Beijing, China, 29 October–1 November 2017.

#### Review: 
This paper dives in great detail on the use of a game theory to solve the optimization problem of multiple EV chargers trying to charge on the same PV solar array. The varying demand of the EV's trying to charge independently without a central scheduling approach. This paper proves that hte approach can reach consensus and optimally provide energy management as a distributed system. It also highlights the ability to scale from 10 EV's to 100. The future work indicated would be to try to see if this approach works with shifting loads, as the EV's engage and disengage through a 24 hour period. 

#### Notes: 
- Largepower req for charging many EVs at once
- Create an Islanded charging station using PV
- Energy management strategy needs to satisfy charging station and EV owners
    - rule based decision making
    - prediction based decision making
- The grid connected system consists of a bi-directionalinverter  (i.e.,  bi-directional  DC/AC.), 
- provides utility function for the charging station
- distrinuted energy management- using eneralized non-cooperative game and the consensus network
- shows how distributed systems need a consensus period to optimize the actions to take in the next ops cycle
- scaability analysis
- future work, is shiftable load of charging station
- combining this paper with the event optimization of parking profiles might be interesting.
- contains typical summer day and typical winter day load profiles
- a battery storage system to filter the dynamic power generated by the PC
- battery storage supports when irradiation is not stron enough
- battery storage to maintain the voltage level of the DC bus
- Note thatthe  household  load  of  the  charging  station  is  not  considered
- Objective function is designed to increase its chargingpower and considering its SOC (SIMILAR TO  L. Ma, N. Liu, J. Zhang, W. Tushar, and C. Yuen, “Energy managementfor  joint  operation  of  chp  and  pv  prosumers  inside  a  grid-connectedmicrogrid: A game theoretic approach,”IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat.,tobe published)


### [[Bounds for Optimal Control of a Regional Plug-In Electric Vehicle Charging Station System.pdf]]

#### Citation:
Sarikprueck, P.; Lee, W.; Kulvanitchaiyanunt, A.; Chen, V.C.P.; Rosenberger, J.M. Bounds for Optimal Controlof a Regional Plug-in Electric Vehicle Charging Station System.IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl.2018,54, 977–986.

#### Review: 
This paper uses an combined architecture for a charging station that leverages renewable energy sources and a battery. This type of charging station takes advantage of the connected sources to minimize the strain of EV's connected directly to the Grid and creating different load profiles. The paper discusses the difficulty of defining bounds for optimal control when operating these charging stations. The authors propose that EV charging stations create a stochastic programming problem similar to a load control and demand response problem. The state variables are the battery levels, uncertain forecasts market price of energy, total wind from remote wind farm and demand of each charging station. The challenge is the optimization of all these variables , by reducing operational cost across all stations. To solve the challenge forecasts of the generated wind,PV and market are created from theoretical and simulated references. They finally discover the bounds for optimal control by calculating two stochastic measures, and discover that the system is most sensitive to market fluctuations. The authors mentions that the accuracy of the market price predictions results in a stochastic gap.

#### Notes: 
 - premise is about the creating charging profiles
- a novel regional EV charging station system, with problem formulation for maximizing profit.
- attempt to charge vehicles using charging stations that are coordinated with renewable energy generation on the grid. Coordination is done virtually not directly tied. 
- studies have not focused on optimal bounds.adjustable confidence bounds.



### [[Decentralized Fuzzy Logic Control of Microgrid for Electric Vehicle Charging Station.pdf]]

#### Citation:
García-Triviño, P.; Torreglosa, J.P.; Fernández-Ramírez, L.M.; Jurado, F. Decentralized Fuzzy Logic Control of Microgrid for Electric Vehicle Charging Station.IEEE J. Emerg. Sel. Top. Power Electron.2019,6, 726–737.

#### Review: 

#### Notes: 
- reduced order small signal stability models
- superconducting magnetic energy storage
- Simpowersystems toolbox of simulink
- Increasing fast chargers.
- there arefour modes of charging
- focused on mode 4 dc level 2 
- fast charging using an external dc charger with a rated power of 100kW
- dynamics of the power converters were neglected.
- particl swarm optimization algorithm minimize th daily running cost of the charger
- dynamic programming for battery SOC
- decentralized EMS with a novel idea, to use the SOC of the ESS as a control variable. 
- parameters DC bus voltage, current sharing
- Power Converter dynamics is comples and is hard to simulate
- Fuzzy management systems allow for better power flow , by modeling power converters as average models . The averaged model represents cs dynamics better. 
- uses fuzzy controller for decentralized EMS to control the converters of two elements of the system seperately and achieve a coordinated oepration of the following parameters:  power flow, MVDC voltage, BESS SOC. 





### [[Modeling, Design, Control, and Implementation of a Modified Z-Source Integrated PV:Grid:EV DC Charger:Inverter.pdf]]

#### Citation:
Singh, S.A.; Carli, G.; Azeez, N.A.; Williamson, S.S. Modeling, Design, Control, and Implementation of a Modified Z-Source Integrated PV/Grid/EV DC Charger/Inverter.IEEE T Ind Electron2018,65, 5213–5220


#### Review: 
The authors of this paper attempt to create a simulation of a modified Z-source inverter to act as a charger. They review how a regular Z-source inverter would work then go into very extensive detail about their modified design. The benefit of using this design is to reduce the size of the transformers in a traditional setup when trying to charge batteries from a PV source with tie in to the grid. The grid-side transformer is large and expensive. By implementing 'half-bridge-converter' mosfets with much faster switching speeds than available before the researchers attempt to measure the proof of concept. The simulation is done in Matlab and a scaled down physical system is built and presented. The findings are that as the battery voltage increases the losses of the design also increase, while the HBC losses decrease. They show various combinations when measuring losses and efficiencies to show the range of the system. In conclusion the MZSI topology is an efficient solution for semi-commercial areas that would utilize PV-Grid-Connected Energy storage. Future work would be trying to replicate this design for string inverters.


#### Notes:
Single phase modified z-source inverter , a string inverter .
- A buck or boost and invert the input dc voltage in a single stage. 
- built proof of concept for 3.3kW
- proposes smaller transformers
- Z-source inverter 
0 as battery voltage increaes the ZSI losses increase but the Mofets reduce losses





### [[A Software Defined Fog Node Based DistributedBlockchain Cloud Architecture for IoT]]

#### Citations:
PRADIP KUMAR SHARMA1, MU-YEN CHEN2, AND JONG HYUK PARK1, (Member, IEEE)1Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University of Science and Technology, Seoul 01811, South Korea2Department of Information Management, National Taichung University of Science and Technology, Taichung 404, TaiwanCorresponding author: Jong Hyuk Park (jhpark1@seoultech.ac.kr

#### Review: 

#### Notes:
- distributed cloud architecture based on blockchain is proposed
- proposes a distributed fog node architecture using SDN
- blockchain allows for full decentralization and redundnacy
- costreductin of storage, Amazon is 25/tb hwile a block chain would cost 2/tb
- inveted a proof of service protocol for blockchain algorithm
- matchmaking algorithm asks "can i perform this task on thismachine"
- scheduler is needed in distributed computing systems 
- use a fog node to reduce securitly vulnerabilities
- use a packet parser to analyze packets for attacks
- We evaluate the proposed scheme byusing the throughput, response time and the delay-incurredperformance metrics. We also evaluate the accuracy of theproposed model by measuring the speed with which it candetect and mitigate saturation attacks at the edge of the net-work.
- tasks are ran on the closest fog node 
- We used the TFN2K tool to generate real-timeattacks. TFN2K is a well-known attack tool for generatingattacks such as ICMP, TCP / SYN, and UDP flood attacks
- In the first case, to increase the numberof hosts to 30K, we used Mininet. We then propelled faketopology, ARP poising and DDoS attacks to the blockchain-based SDN controller network fog node in the edge network.
- It is based on three emerging technologies: fog com-puting, SDN, and blockchain
- high availability, real-time data delivery,high scalability, security, resiliency, and low latency.
- It also demonstrates the efficiency and effective-ness of the proposed model and that it meets the requireddesign principles with minimal overhead.In the future, we will explore the various energy har-vesting technique aspects of our proposed model for energyefficient communication among devices at the edge of theIoT network









### [[Decentralized EV-Based Charging Optimization With Building Integrated Wind Energy.pdf]]

#### Citation:

#### Review:

#### Notes:
Major Takeaway : This is not a practical design for implementing wind turbines on every building. lots of issues.
How can i use the optimization techniques in this paper?
-  EV based decentralized charging algorithm EBDC
- Model predictive control
- Numerically demonstrates the EV charging demand and wind power suppy of buildings is scalable using EBDC
- can this approach be suitable for a wind site? should each wind turbine have a battery?
- main contributions
	- real time coordination of EV charging,with weather forecast and Model Predictive control
	- EV decentralized charging algorithm. 
	- Comparison of hueristic and optimal control
- EV;s scheduling techniques
	- charging cost reduction
	- load flattening
	- frequency regulation
	- waiting time minimization
- EV parking with solar , controled by a central system operator.
	- day ahead must be accurately predicted
- Markov decision is best to attach the EV charging problem. his  approach  can  take  advantageof the Markov property of the problem; however, it is usuallyintractable  due  to  the  state  and the  action  space  explosion
- The  spatial-temporal  charging  flexibility  related  to  themobility of EVs [32], [33] has been scarcely addressed in theliterature,
- Departure from a buildling to another building was graphed out to be gaussian distributed around a major time, of 8:30am
- I reearched the MPC approach, and studied what this controller model could fo. 
- The EBDC apporach they created showed a local optimization based on announced price - Combine these methods with event based optimization to handle wind and or solar renewable energy?
- can i create a distributed controller for wind and energy and storage sites?



### [[Distributed energy storage node controller and control strategy based on energy storage cloud platform architecture.pdf]]

#### Citation:

#### Review:
The paper tries to present a method to manage storage systems that are independent from eacho ther. An objective function is created with the idea to minimize charing prizs. 

#### Notes
- plug and play device
- intelligent power consumption mode
- Load perception of the power grid
- operating state and service life of distributd energy storage devices
- Integrated optimal control scheme
- Energy optimization and deployment strategy for stratified partition
- rduce operating costs of energy storage device on client side
- Suzhou client-side distributed energy storage demo
- Problem:
	- Strong decentralization
	- Difficult Control
	- Inconsistent aggregation paramters of dis. sustem
	- Hogh overall oepration cost






### [[System Planning of Grid-Connected Electric Vehicle Charging Stations and Key Technologies.pdf]]

#### Citation:
Chao-Tsung Ma , System Planning of Grid-Connected Electric Vehicle Charging Stations and Key Technologies

#### Review:
The paper is a digest of many algorithms bieng applied to the problem of EVintegration with the grid. It highlights each algorithm in the major problems , like power transer rate, poer and energy management, and system optimization.
The interesting challenges around optimizing the distributed behavior is solved using swarm optimization and game theory techniques for economic transactions as well as infrastructure and power arbitrage.
The paper makes th case that Renewable generation will be adopted when EV's can help balance the dynamic nature of the demand curve through proper energy storage and smooting. They explain that EV's are a complicated and multi-layered subject that can range from smart home technologies to economics to power converter systems. Each niche having its unique research and optimization strategies.

#### Notes
- EV supply equipment is expected to increase 
- Problems to overcome 
	- power trabsfer rate
	- power and energy mangement
	- system optimization
- EV grid-tied with renewable energy requires control schemes
- V2G can smooth fluctuating power an enable the onboarding of more renewables on the grid
-  a 50kw ECS simulaiton showd that an ecs caued minimal harmonic distortion 
- Tandem queing model was used to manage commercial potential of an ECS network of 4 vehicles
- Placement of charging stations was optimized using shared nearest nighbor clustering algorithm
- Swarm optimization algorithm was used to solve optimization of ECS capacity placement
- Multi-objective evolutionary algorithm to optimize planning of an ECS infrastructure
- Benders decomposition algorithm to optimize the charging schedule of an ECS with a battery swapping service


### [[IoT and the Energy Sector copy.pdf]]

#### Citataion:
Naser Hossein Motlagh 1 , Mahsa Mohammadrezaei 2 and Julian Hunt 3 and Behnam Zakeri 3,4,*

#### Review:
The paper highlights the future of research in the blockchain and green iot solutions. The paper covers the virtual powerplant idea as an aggregation of prosumers and discusses the needs for democratization of energy by tracking the distributed cost of energy consumption. Fog Computing seems to be the best way for blockchain technologies in IoT to be adopted in the energy sector because it circumvents the computational and security needs for a mature network by utilizing existing infrastructure built at wind and solar sites. The paper offers an insight into the use of IoT in the energy sector by providing the breakdown of the most important component to energy constumption, HVAC follwoed by lighting. These two components can be controlled by blockchain solutions and have a great. impact. Leading to the idea that a transformation of the grid can occur when IoT networks transform the energy sector forom a centralized supply chain into a decentralized , smart and optimized system.

#### Notes
- It highlights future research to be focused on Blockhain and Green IoT solutions
- VPP is an aggregation of prosumers
- Democratization of energy will enable new ways to track and distribute cost of energy consumption
- Distributed computing techniques can increase security, and save energy in the IoT network, but crates complex architecture
- Fog computing can ease the adoption of blockchain technologies in IoT (due to the computational needs , places like wind/solar sites may have the infrastructure to provide it)
- IoT Based powerplants can save 230M , and IoT retrofitted powerplants can save 50M over the course of its lifetime
- Examples of IoT in practice :
	- Detection if Energy Demeand exceeds grid capacity
	- Optimizing consumption and generation using far-sighted strategies
	- Active voltage management to reduce Transmission and Distribution Line losses
	- Reduction of non-technical losses using smart meter network
- Half of residential energy consumption is due to HVAC 
- About 20% of residential consumption is due to lighting
- Energy solutions in the residentail space would benefit from IoT management of HVAC and Lighting systems
- Energy eindustry will transform from centralized supply chain into a decentralized, smart, and optimized 



### [[Internet of Things-aided Smart Grid.pdf]]

#### Citations:
Internet of Things-aided Smart Grid: Technologies,Architectures, Applications, Prototypes, and Future Research Directions
Yasir Saleem, Student Member, IEEE, Noel Crespi, Senior Member, IEEE, Mubashir Husain Rehmani, Senior Member, IEEE, and Rebecca Copeland

#### Review:
The paper dives into a detailed breakdown of each segment of the smart grid. The survey results in acknowledging the lack of research in published prototypes of IoT network simulations. The smart grid architecture proposed shows the layers involved in the networks overlaying the digital network with the physical network of power transmission. Most of the research surveyed has been shown to be focused on the Home area networks or HAN's . IoT networks are built around mesh communications such as blue tooth and zigbee that allow for near field communications for systems dont require high-reliability. In a smart grid the HAN is the first layer that needs to be connected through a field area network (FAN) or nieghborhoood area network (NAN). The best solution for NAN's for IoT is LoraWan but its still not as useful for smart grid control because of the security concerns. The best NAN communicaiton tehcnology is a mix of cellular communication , wireless mesh and existing wired telecom lines. The WAN wide area network is best implemented with wired telecom lines to provide reliability needed by the smart grid. The greatest challenge of IoT penetration into the Smart Grid is the problem of interoperability. The different network solutoins do not have clear standard for various reasons described in the paper aorund regional and technical constraints.  The lack of standards causes manufacturers in HAN networks to adopt the best communication technology for the service or product that is provided. Compounding the problem smart grid technology will not change until there is economic demand to push the risk of grid stability into untested wireless communication technologies.

#### Notes
- Information Flow can be overlaid on top of the Power Flow and labeled as WAN (Wide area network),NAN (nieghbordhood area network),HAN(Home Area Network) or FAN (field area network0, in accordance with Generation,Transmission,Distribution, and Consumption
- Electric vehicles can be charged or discharged in multiple ways when paired with a home. V2G , vehicle to grid, V2V , vehicle to vehicle, and V2H vehicle to home . All of these methods can be used by EV's to participate in the market as prosumers
- Smart Grid adds three main things to power grid
	- remote controlling and monitoring
	- reporting to consumer
	- integration of renewable and distributed energy resrouces
- Smart grid has 4 main subsystems
	- power generation
	- power transmission
	- power distribution
	- power utilization
- Smart grids with IoT enable
	- information flow
	- power flow
	- distribution flow
-Smart Grids use smart meters over General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) of other mobile networks
- Standards are not yet established for IoT aided SG
- This survey reveals that there is little literature on the application of IoT-aided SG systems in the area of power generation, transmission and utilization. The potential of renewable energy may depend, for example, on IoT-based prediction of weather conditions that can regulate energy flow between different regions, and on monitoring the efficiency of the involved equipment (solar panels, wind turbines).
- SGAM (Smart Grid Architecture Model) which is designed for SG planning and is the SG reference architecture by EU Mandate M/490
- REal time montorng of medium voltage grid, using Phase Measurng Unit PMU, adopted discrete Kalman Filter over weighted least squares for more accurate estimations 
- The discrete Kalman Filter with no control input solves the problem of estimating the state of a discrete-time system process. It is suitable for 3-phase systems and solely relies on nodal synchrophasor measurement offered by PMUs.
- his prototype validates the accuracy and time latency of a real-time 3-ph state estimation process deployed in a real Active Distribution Network (ADN)
- From this viewpoint of the prototype literature, it becomes apparent that there are no easily available open-source testbeds and simulation tools to enable developing experimentations and performance evaluation of IoT aided SG systems. For this purpose, [170] is a good source of guidance.
- for industrial applications and discussed how WirelessHART can outperform ZigBee
- NB-IoT incurs latency, so it is not suitable for delay-tolerant applications, such as distributed automation and Distributed Energy Resourc
- The powerline transmission medium of the PLC technology is noisy and harsh, increasing the challenges of channel modeling [206]. Moreover, the quality of signals are adversely affected by using powerlines in SGs due to various parameters, such as the number and types of IoT devices connected through powerlines, the wiring distance between transmitters and receivers, and the network topology [186]
- We came to know that most of the communication technologies are designed by focusing HAN. However, there is a new IoT communication technology, named LoRaWAN, which is a very good candidate for NAN and WAN and it is a long range and low-power communication technology.
- data fusion technologies to filter and aggregate only useful data from multiple IoT devices, 
- Interoper- ability is defined as the ability of two or more heterogeneous networks/devices to exchange information between them, and to use the exchanged information in a common function









## Unsorted
Internet of Things (IoT) and the Energy Sector
Naser Hossein Motlagh 1 , Mahsa Mohammadrezaei 2 and Julian Hunt 3 and Behnam Zakeri 3,4,*

Internet of Things-aided Smart Grid: Technologies,
Architectures, Applications, Prototypes, and Future
Research Directions
Yasir Saleem, Student Member, IEEE, Noel Crespi, Senior Member, IEEE, Mubashir Husain Rehmani, Senior Member, IEEE, and Rebecca Copeland

A Software Defined Fog Node Based Distributed Blockchain Cloud Architecture for IoT
P. K. Sharma, M. Chen and J. H. Park, "A Software Defined Fog Node Based Distributed Blockchain Cloud Architecture for IoT," in IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 115-124, 2018, doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2757955.

https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8053750
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6507301
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6184305
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7063241
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7972554

---

(Paper Reviews)
- EV batteries charging in and out

    - Batteries for power market can fluctuate state of charges used for power systesm
    - Batteries for cars are not meant to fluctuate as much
        - car batteries are ntoe meant ot beused for frequency regulation
    Can we find the optimal combination between car batteries and power batteries?
    - What does that involve?
    - heat degraes batteries faster, long term batteries are not meant for cycling to many times
- Strategizing with EV batteries
    - seems complicated
    - how do you coordinate many cars to charge 

- Dont know of the capabilities of the battery and dont know if its usable. 
- knowing the health of the battery.. can help you 
- Renewabl energy of the building, can be coordinated, 
    - 10 datapoints from tesla, to provide information 

Accurate enough to be safe, 








D.  Sbordone,  I.  Bertini,  B.  Di  Pietra,  M.  C.  Falvo,  A.  Genovese,  andL.  Martirano,  “EV  fast  charging  stations  and  energy  storage  technolo-gies:  A real  implementation  in  the  smart micro  grid  paradigm,”Electr.Power  Syst.  R es., vol. 120, pp. 96–108, Mar. 2015.

Electric Vehicle Conductive Charging System—Part 1: General Require-ments, document IEC 61851-1:2010,  2016
- Standard for vehicle charging modes
- Quality , Type of VOltage, CS modes, and Protection Location, DC level 2, with 
- dpendent or independent parameters?
- define a cost function that optimizes all of the 
- Cost function (w1 * a1, w2 * a2, ....) : Designer or custoemr can design the w1,w2,w3,w4 ...
- Undertand how to   


J.  de  Santiagoet  al.,  “Electrical  motor  drivelines  in  commercial  all-electric  vehicles:  A review,”IEEE Trans.  Veh. Technol.,  vol. 61,  no. 2,pp. 475–484,  Feb. 2012

W.  Zhou,  M.  Li,  H.  Yin,  and  C.  Ma,  “An  adaptive  fuzzy  logic  basedenergy  management strategy  for electric  vehicles,”  inProc. IEEE ISIE,Istanbul,  Turkey, Jun. 2014, pp. 1778–1783.[24]   S.  G.  Li,  S.  M.  Sharkh,  F.  C.  Walsh,  and  C.  N.  Zhang,  “Energy  andbattery  management  of  a  plug-in  series  hybrid  electric  vehicle  usingfuzzy logic,”IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 60, no. 8, pp. 3571–3585,Oct. 2011.

[25]   M.  A.  Silva,  H.  N.  de  Melo,  J.  P.  Trovao,  P.  G.  Pereirinha,   andH.  M.  Jorge,  “An  integrated  fuzzy  logic  energy  management  for  adual-source  electric  vehicle,”  inProc.  IEEE-IECON,  Vienna,  Austria,Nov. 2013, pp. 4564–4569.

[26]   L.  Yao,  Z.  Damiran,  and  W.  H.  Lim,  “A  fuzzy  logic  based  chargingscheme  for  electric  vechicle  parking  station,”  inProc.  IEEE-EEEIC,Florence,  Italy,  Jun. 2016, pp. 1–6.[27]   W.  Chen,  L.  Wang,  A.  Ulatowski,  and  A.  M.  Bazzi,  “A  fuzzy  logicapproach  for  fault  diagnosis  and  recovery  in  PHEV and  EV chargers,”inProc. IEEE Transp.  Electrif.  Conf.  Expo,  Florence,  Italy,  Jun.  2014,pp. 1–5.

[28]   M. A. Hannan, Z. A. Ghani, A. Mohamed, and M. N. Uddin, “Real-timetesting  of  a  fuzzy-logic-controller-based   grid-connected   photovoltaicinverter system,”IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 51, no. 6, pp. 4775–4784,Nov./Dec. 2015.

[29]   K. Thirugnanam and P. Kumar, “Fuzzy based active and reactive powersupport  to  the  distribution  network  using  electric  vehicles,”  inProc.IEEE-ITEC, Chennai,  India, Aug. 2015, pp. 1–6


 L. Ma, N. Liu, J. Zhang, W. Tushar, and C. Yuen, “Energy managementfor  joint  operation  of  chp  and  pv  prosumers  inside  a  grid-connectedmicrogrid: A game theoretic approach,”IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat.,tobe published

- Langragian multiplier research
- conenctrate on using household load.
- look at the lion claim 
- reearch fuzzy logic paper
- decentralize fuzzy logic controller vs the consensus network
- understand theconcepts of the paper as a consensus network based learning or another earning algorithm
